summer is coming to a close and for the
first time in six years Microsoft hasn't
brought back at some of our K promotion
what the heck Microsoft will examine its
past in order to get some answers
in 2008 it started with a bank with
Bionic Commando Castle Crashers and
geometry wars its lineup was a mix of
retro and new by also including braid I
than small-time developer and Jonathan
Blow stepped right into the spotlight
2009 showed that some of arcade was an
awesome place for smaller developers to
reach the large xbox live audience
people are still calling for a Shadow
Complex equal and Trials HD showed
players that games with motorbikes need
to be all high octane to be fun 2010 was
the year of revival Lara Croft saw a
fairly successful return with the
Guardian of Light Castlevania also saw
some traction with harmony of despair
Monday night combats addictive
multiplayer became a fan favorite and
limbo was the artistic choice of the
year 2011 was the first time a Kinect
game made its way into the mix fruit
ninja Kinect was an attempt to show the
audience that its new toy was worth it
with mixed results both Bastian and
insanely twisted shadow planet received
favorable receptions this year though
2012 saw the Alaura start to wear off
tony hawk's pro skater HD attempted to
recapture a classic franchise but should
have probably been left on the shelf the
years positive offerings included dust
and Elysian tail and the more average
dead light and hybrid if 2013 was truly
the last year of the summer of arcade it
went out with a fizzle the games were
inconsistent in quality and there were
fewer of them flashback didn't live up
to its former glory and Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles was awful the standout
though was brothers a tale of two suns
which was one of the most critically
acclaimed games of the year what
happened some of arcades decline meant
that once happy customers of this
promotion couldn't rely on the picks
being good ones in its opening years
there was confidence that all the games
included were enjoyable as time passed
though there was considerable decline in
the consistency of quality this is super
apparent when looking at the average
Metacritic scores from each year
there is also the idea that Microsoft is
just too busy putting out fires to
launch this year's promotion with
layoffs and restructuring the focus
might have shifted leaving summer of
Arcade with no support
even with its decline summer arcade was
still a great way to promote some of the
best indie titles of the year we hope it
can return rebranded and refreshed and
four more features in a video game
coverage head over to Shaq news.com